turkey says it has suspended all trade
with Israel citing the worsening
humanitarian situation in the
Palestinian territory anchor said all
imports and exports would be suspended
until the Israeli government allowed an
uninterrupted and sufficient flow of Aid
the trade between the two countries was
worth almost $7 billion last year
Israel's foreign minister Israel Katz
accused turkey's president Reep typ
erdogan of behaving like a dictator
adding that turkey would lose well Gaza
the United Nations claims Aid lores have
been regularly blocked on a road leading
to a key Israeli checkpoint it says
these delays are hindering humanitarian
efforts although Israel says it is doing
everything necessary to facilitate Aid
well BBC verifies Jake Horton has been
looking at the evidence people in
Northern Gaza facing imminent famine and
humanitarian groups say more food is
urgently needed the majority of Aid
comes over land on Lor
it's collected from Southern Gaza and
taken North how quickly these lorries
able to travel through Gaza is crucial
Israel says it's doing everything
necessary to make that process as smooth
as possible but the UN says big qes at
Key Israeli checkpoint inside Gaza are
repeatedly hindering its efforts the
checkpoint is here on Salah Aline Road a
key route for Aid South to North we've
been investigating reports of blockages
here over the past
month exclusive satellite images
obtained by booy verify show a
bottleneck of lorries just north of that
checkpoint in this photo you can on from
the 15th of April you can see dozens of
lores we've counted more than 70 in a
kilometer long queue the UN says the
blockage built up over three days and
almost half of the fleet used to deliver
Aid was stuck at its
peak the UN has previously sent us these
images from on the ground you can see a
line of empty lorries pulled up on the
side of the road we've located these to
the same stretch of road on Salah Aline
similar blockages have happened before
according to the UN and we found
satellite images that confirm this like
this incident in early April where you
can see dozens of trucks waiting north
of the checkpoint we asked the Israeli
authorities about these reported delays
but we haven't heard
back is Israel has previously accused
the UN of being too slow to distribute
Aid in this tweet posted on the 11th of
April by Kat the Israeli that oversees
humanitarian efforts they said there was
sufficient aid for 600 lorries waiting
to be picked up and that the bottlenecks
aren't on the Israeli side a week later
in another
tweet Kat said the Aida built up further
urging the UN to do its job the UN says
their work in Gaza is often restricted
by Israeli rules Israel now says it's a
reopen the main Aid Crossing into the
north but as people there Edge closer to
famine the UN says better coop operation
is needed from all sides to distribute
supplies properly within
Gaza yeah Jake Horton there with me now
is say shahata from BBC Arabic s all of
this underlines the need for a truce so
how are those talks
going there is no talks right now uh the
latest is Mr Han Hanya the chief of the
political Bureau of Hamas talk with the
Qatari prime minister yesterday and talk
with the head of intelligence of Egypt
Abbas camel and they talk about sending
a new delegation uh from Hamas to
negotiate about a truce they was suppos
Hamas to respond to a proposal from
Israel on Monday but they didn't on
Wednesday they didn't so it looks there
is a problem because Hamas and Israel
they have a big gap between them Hamas
condition the withdrawal of the Israeli
force from Gaza they want to Perman ceas
Perman ceas fire but Israel is saying
you know after the release of some
hostages return of some prisoners uh
will be uh kind of a truth for 40 days
where there will be no hostilities or no
like fighting and they call in the next
second stage of like sustainable period
of calm instead of using permanent
ceasefire so is a gap between them in
addition to that you know Mr Netanyahu
insisting on launching a ground
offensive uh in Rafa so and this even in
spite of the warning from United States
from the Palestinian from other United
Nations organization because would be
the catastrophic effect on the civilians
where there's more than one one million
people live in far in in Rafa most of
them are displaced from the north and
other plac in Gaza you think all of this
would put pressure on both sides to to
reach an agreement is it just that their
their demands are too far apart because
even America is is is putting a lot of
pressure on on both sides Americans they
trying to put they saying you know Mr
blinkin and Mr Biden saying the now
Hamas turn to accept what is Mr blinkin
said a strong proposal from Israel but
in Hamas opening is not because their
condition is not are not compromised
according to them so they insist on the
withdrawal and the return of the
displaced people from the South to the
north and this will affecting you know
like the situation inside Gaza so the
picture you're painting is the sides are
very far apart at the moment um the
longer this goes on it's bad news for
both sides and our BBC colleagues are
reporting alarm in Israel Over possible
legal action over Gaza this interesting
report on the BBC website saying that
the international criminal court is
potentially planning to seek arrest
warrants for military and political
leaders on suspicions of war crimes
including prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu he could be among those it's
not a good news for Israel because there
is some isolation for Israel
International era there is like
demonstration in America there's
demonstration other places there is a
case by South Africa against israelian I
the international uh court of justice
and now seeking arrest warranties
against Mr Netanyahu and other top
leaders from uh the Army and the
politician is not a good news and even
Mr Netanyahu and this shows like his
concerned about that he said like he
accused the IC of attempting to paralyze
the ability of Israel to defend itself
so he accusing them but the IC looking
at that after Mr Kim Khan the chief
prosecutor of the IC looking into the
cas he visited Israel didn't he and the
occupied West Bank last December and
this this is coming off the back of that
yeah he visit and he condemned the
violence against civilian on both sides
not only on the Hamas you know G side
but also what the Hamas done in Israel
so he condemned both sides and he
promised to to investigate that and part
of that is the maybe plan of arrest
warranties against Mr potentially I
should Netanyahu has called the prospect
of senior Israeli figures joining The
Wanted list as an outrage of historic
proportions accusing the ICC of
attempting to paralyze Israel's ability
to defend itself Sayed as always thank
you very much